1. run createDB.sql to update your tables according to new parameters discovered when working through adding customers/reservations
2. add your password to the newly updated InsertData.java file and run to populate data, I added some updates to the formatting. THIS IS THE ONLY FILE WHERE YOU WILL NEED TO ADD YOUR PASSWORD TO THE SOURCE CODE. I will update it when I add the adminscreen functionalities so that we no longer will need to add the password after login, but I havent merged these two parts of the program yet. 
3. create a new function by running getpricefunction.sql in datagrip
4. I had to add all of the .java files to a package(dbpack), and because of that, they can now be accessed via </br>
javac -cp "postgresql-42.2.18.jar;." dbpack/CostaExpress.java <br>
java -cp "postgresql-42.2.18.jar;." dbpack/CostaExpress <br>
**If you choose to edit the java files, each edited class will need to be recompiled with example: javac -cp .... dbpack/className.java** <br>
5. advancedSearches.sql contains my searches so far, but they are not implemented in the program nor are they finished, I just wanted to give it to you so you know where we are with those.

Notes about the program:<br>
Login - no user name is needed unless your username is different from the default "postgres" <br>
Admin Screen has no functionality yet. <br>
Agent Screen has no functionality for search or edit.

how to add customers:<br>
Enter parameters and click 'add'. If a new customer was added, a CustomerID is generated by the database and returned in the program under Customer ID

how to add reservations:<br>
Enter start station, end station, day, time and route and click 'get price'. The program generates a statement that corresponds to the getpricefunction and returns the price and train number of the request. <br>
Once the price has been generated, add a customerID and the amount paid. The program generates a reservation based on these parameters and if paid in full, a ticket number is generated.

The demo is super sensitive right now, for instance, if you were to make up a customerID that does not relate to any customers in the database and add it to the reservation, it would let you. This is fine for testing but it's something to consider in the future. 

I have my jar file in many places. I don't think it matters at all as long as it's in the root folder, Demo. I'm also not sure whether your machine will recognize the package, but if not.. I made it in VSCode by following these instructions: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61503702/how-to-make-packages-in-java-project-in-visual-studio-code

If you have any questions or need help figuring out how to run this on your machine, let me know!

-Sam


4/13 Updates 

Added UpdateReservation and EditCustomer demonstrations, and created a make file

I'm not sure if calling a makefile is different on a mac.. I had to download chocolatey so that Windows would recognize the command. make is default in Linux, and is HOPEFULLY default on your machines too :) <br>
using the makefile, you can now call 'make' in the root directory, Demo, instead of calling javac -cp "postgresql-42.2.18.jar;." dbpack/CostaExpress.java for each one of the classes. Then, you just run the program using java -cp "postgresql-42.2.18.jar;." dbpack/CostaExpress as normal <br>

It's not a big deal for you guys now, but when I was working through the code initially, VScode would save code but not update the .class file, so when I would run the code from the command prompt, the changes weren't saving and I had to run javac -cp "postgresql-42.2.18.jar;." dbpack/CostaExpress.java for each .java file that I updated. If you encounter an issue where the updates arent reflecting on your program when entered with the command prompt, this is probably why <br>

-Sam

4/15 Updates

Added Search screen and Single Route search screen.<br>
Added new sql file "updatePhase3_v1.sql" which must be run before the updates will be functional.<br>
Added Combination Route Search screen and functionality. <br>
Added new sql file "updatePhase3_v2.sql" which must be run before the updates will be functional.<br>
Make sure to run all updatephase3_v files. <br>
Added new sql file "updatePhase3_v3.sql" which must be run before the updates will be functional.<br>
Make sure to run all updatephase3_v files. <br>

+ Added new table because we needed a place to store the total seats for each train on any given schedule stop. 
+ Populated the new data with data from pre-existing tables.
+ Implemented a seat count function to update the seat count for the seat a passenger uses throughout their journey.
+ Implemented the Single Route Trip Search requirement. Sorting functionality works but does not show the sorting method value.

What we still need to finish:
+ EditCustomer.java
+ UpdateReservation.java
+ AdminScreen.java
+   - Import Database by AllData.txt (complete, but cannot access import from program yet)
+   - Import Database using user specified file.
+   - Export Database
+   - Delete Database
+ Combined Route Trip Search (CombinedRoute.java, does not exist yet) **DONE**
+ Advanced Searches A - I (AdvSearchA.java, AdvSearchB.java, ... AdvSearchH.java, AdvSearchI.java, these do not exist yet) (advA is done)
+ Customer Reservation Search(I added this so we could easily find reservations that a customer has, but it's very low on the priority list and I can delete it if we can't get to it)

I'm hoping since Single Route Search is now implemented, we can use that as a template for the remaining searches. 

If you update, make sure to run the updatePhase3_v1.sql before running the program.
Let me know if either of you have any questions!

-Sam


